[Music]
Ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump is
angry. And this time he's angry because
Russia, China, and India are coming
together to challenge the power of
America again.
US President Donald Trump threatened to
add 10% tariffs on any country
supporting what he called the BRICS
anti-American policies. Bricks was set
up to degenerate our dollar. And that's
okay if they want to play that game, but
I can play that game, too. So, anybody
that's in bricks is getting a 10%
charge.
This challenge is the bricks challenge.
They are leaving their mark on the
international system. Bricks, Brazil,
Russia, India, China, and South Africa.
The group of emerging economies known as
bricks
trying to position itself as the voice
for emerging economies and challenge
western dominance of global affairs. For
those who don't know, BRICS is nothing
but an alliance of Brazil, Russia,
India, China, and South Africa. And on
paper, these nations are so so powerful
that in 1995, while the PPP GDP of G7
countries was $17 trillion, bricks only
stood at $10 trillion. But in 2025,
while the PPP GDP of G7 is $57 trillion,
the BRICS countries together have a
combined PPP GDP of $72 trillion. The
expansion of bricks could definitely
boost the group's global influence.
The BRICS countries together make up
almost a third of the world's GDP. The
world's economic balance shifting
towards the bricks and emerging
economies.
BRICS alliance has overtaken the G7 in
global economic weight.
In fact, today bricks nations represent
nearly 40% of the world's population.
They control more than 80% of the
world's rare earth minerals and they
hold over 20% of global oil and gas
reserves. So the question is what is
Briggs doing? Why is it so so powerful
today? Why is America threatened by the
rise of Briggs? And what does the story
teaches about power, politics and
geopolitical alliances?
Before we dive in, I want to give a
massive shout out to ODU for supporting
this content. Now listen to this very
carefully because what I'm about to tell
you is something that you cannot afford
to miss. This August, something big is
happening in India's business world and
ODU is leading this wave. ODU is hosting
India's biggest business and tech event
with over 20,000 plus founders, creators
and professionals coming together under
one roof. And you know what the best
part is? It is absolutely free to
attend. It's called UDU community day
2025 and it's happening on 14th and 15th
of August at Mahatma in Gandhiagar in
Gujarat. and I'll be speaking at this
event with my brother Aayush Vadwa on
14th of August. At this event, you will
get to attend 200 plus expert sessions,
live product demos, influencer panels,
founder keynotes and a killer afterparty
that you definitely don't want to miss.
So whether you are an entrepreneur, a
creator, a techie, or just someone
curious about what India's future looks
like, this event will help you learn,
grow, and connect with people that
actually are building India's future.
So, if you're serious about building
smarter, scaling faster, and meeting the
change makers of tomorrow, this is the
event that you just shouldn't miss. So,
if you're interested, hit the link in
the description and register now. And I
will see you at ODU Community Day 2025.
[Music]
Let's start by understanding what
exactly is so special and powerful about
bricks that the president of America
himself is worried. Well, there are
three reasons. Firstly, BRIRs is on a
mission to break America's greatest
superpower, which is the US dollar. Look
at this chart. Slowly and steadily, the
dollar's global dominance is fading
away. 20 years ago, 70% of foreign
reserves were in dollars. Today, it's
down to 60% and it's still falling. Now,
BRICS countries are planning to make a
unified BRICS currency, which is a
direct attack on the dollar. BRICS
countries have started a bold discourse
of ditching the dollar's dominance in
favor of national currencies.
Bricks uh uh common currency is going to
be as it stands right now a currency
that's backed by tangible assets.
So India of course stands together with
BRICS nations in exploring use of
increasingly local currencies and
potentially launching a bricks currency
as well. So now if you look at the
transactions across the world, a trader
like Rahul from India if he wants to buy
oil from a supplier in the UAE, Rahul
first needs to convert his rupees into
US dollars because global trade is
dominated by dollars. So Rahul's
transaction passes through the western
controlled swift payment system where
western countries see approve and even
control this transaction. And for any
reason, if the West imposes sanctions or
restrictions on India or the United Arab
Emirates, Rahul's business transaction
can be instantly stopped or blocked. In
short, Rahul's trade is completely
dependent on the dollar and the Western
bank's approval. But after brick
strategy, if Rahul wants to buy oil from
UAE again, here's how it will play out.
Now he would use the bricksbridge
platform where his rupees will be
automatically converted to digital
rupees and using blockchain based
technology. His digital rupees will get
converted directly to digital dams
instantly, cheaply and without passing
through the western financial systems.
So this transaction never touches the
dollar. So western sanctions or
restrictions will no longer apply to
Rahul or any trader in India trading
with United Arab Emirates because this
trade route entirely bypasses the
western controlled financial
infrastructure. So Rahul will be free to
trade without the mercy of the west and
even commodities like wheat and corn
could soon trade on the bricks grain
exchange which will be priced in bricks
currencies instead of the US dollar. And
this shift has America worried. Why?
Because if some countries dare to do
this, all countries might follow. In
fact, Donald Trump is so threatened that
he want to impose a massive tariff on
BRICS nations if they dare to launch
their own currency.
You know, the brick states there like
six of them and they were trying to
destroy our dollar. They were going to
say, you know, they wanted to create a
new currency. Any brick state that even
mentions the destruction of the dollar
will be charged a 150% tariff and we
don't want your goods. We don't want to
partake. That's how serious this threat
has become for America. Secondly, BRIRC
is quietly building a new world order to
prevent the abuse of power that US holds
with World Bank and IMF. And there's a
shocking story that I have to tell you.
You know, in the late 1990s, Bolivia was
under heavy economic pressure. They
desperately needed money for
infrastructure like schools, roads, and
basic services. But there was one catch.
To get loans and aid from international
institutions like the World Bank,
Bolivia had to agree to three critical
conditions. Now listen to this very
carefully. Three critical conditions.
Firstly, they had to cut government
subsidies, which is okay, right?
Secondly, they had to open their economy
for foreign investors, which is also
okay, right? But you know what the third
condition was? Bolivia was told that
they had to privatize water. Yes,
Bolivia had to privatize water. And this
was such a horrible condition that in
1999, Bolivia privatized its water
system in Kochamba, which is its third
largest city. And the contract of water
went to an American engineering company
called Bectal. And here's the problem.
Bectal was given complete control over
Coach Bamba's water to an extent where
even drain water collection was made
illegal. And what happened next?
Overnight, water prices tripled. Some
families had to spend 50% of their
monthly income just to access clean
water. And even rural farmers who were
collecting rain water were told that it
was illegal because Becttel had the
water monopoly. So do you realize this
wasn't just inflation? This was survival
being monetized. Now why did the World
Bank do this? Because America could
influence the World Bank. Now imagine if
this happens to India tomorrow if there
is an economic crisis and we need the
World Bank. Imagine if they say Ganga
will belong to an American firm and
Yamuna will belong to a British firm.
How will you feel? It will be horrible,
right? This is the reason why BRIGs has
the new development bank as an
alternative to the World Bank itself.
And the new development bank has already
approved over $30 billion in loans for
infrastructure projects in emerging
economies. Moreover, NDB is pioneering
loans in local currencies like rupees or
yuan instead of the US dollar. This is
the second power that is carrying the
west. And lastly, since the UAE and
Saudi Arabia have also become bricks
plus members, the bricks practically
holds the population power. The currency
power is rising and the oil powers are
joining hands with bricks.
So Saudi Arabia and the UAE to join
bricks. Now bricks, the esteemed
coalition of Brazil, Russia, India,
China and South Africa is shaking things
up. In a major strike, Saudi Arabia, the
UAE, and Iran have received invitations
to join this group.
Combine that with the economic might of
China and the nuclear might of Russia,
bricks appears to be one of the most
powerful alliance in the world. So,
bricks can practically kill the American
dominance, right? Well, unfortunately,
not at all. You know why? Because there
are four simple reasons. Firstly, the US
dollar isn't just money. It's a currency
of trust. During global crisis like
wars, pandemics or recessions, investors
always rush to the US dollar because
treasury bonds are always the safest
investment option. And to be honest, we
all know that nobody trusts China. In
fact, China alone holds more than $800
billion in US bonds. So even if BRICS
wants its own currency, it will take a
long time to challenge the dollar trust.
And by long time, I mean 50 long years.
Secondly, BRICS countries are deeply
divided. India and China do not like
each other. Brazil is struggling
politically and economically. South
Africa is heavily dependent on Western
investments and financial support for
survival. And Saudi Arabia and UAE need
America for military and security ties.
And thirdly, the United States has the
world's most powerful military. In fact,
in 2024, America's defense budget was
$997 billion and all BRICS nations
combined spent only $500 billion. That's
barely half of what the US spends alone.
So even if bricks grows economically,
currently it cannot match America's
military strength or global influence.
And lastly, in the last 10 years, while
the new development bank has approved
$30 billion in total, that's about $4 to
7 billion per year. But the World Bank,
the World Bank lends around 50 to$60
billion each. So NDB is like a village
bank in India fighting against a giant
like HDFC. So the moral of the story is
that bricks is definitely challenging
America's global power. But the problem
is that it's not fully replacing it. Not
yet and not anytime soon. This is the
story of the bricks alliance, the
challenge to the United States and where
we stand today against the United States
which is practically nowhere. That's all
from my side today guys. If you learned
something valuable, please hit the like
button in order to make YouTube happy.
And for more such insightful business
and political case studies, please
subscribe to our channel. Thank you so
much for watching. I will see you in the
next one. Bye-bye.
[Music]